# Wicks

***in which Wicks are chosen as a solution\***

*“Do you really think this can work?” The way she asked, sighing. The entire plan will take centuries, if not millennia. She was speaking, yet there was no sound. Why do we not just blast that sordid planet into bits and good riddance? Really, why not? All predictions are aligned. No good  will come of this planet. They will have rockets, they will go to the  Moon and touch down on Mars. We cannot let this happen. As she was  brainwaving these words to a large assembly in a room clothed in green  velvet matching her red dress perfectly, it was clear that her voice  carried command. They were gathered on one of the largest ships of the  galactic fleet. It had never been attacked in its existence. It was  built for peace, so powerful that its mere presence dropped on any form  of intelligence as a lovely warm blanket of calm. The assembly had not  been called for over seventy years. Most attendants had never set eyes  on the Seeer. She was quite a sight indeed. “Yes, it can work”, came a  voice, silent and gentle with a touch of blue. And more, it has been  done before, although I agree that was a much smaller planet. The  speaker was wearing a robe of fine colored feathers. Clearly not ashamed to show he was from woods. As were his skills. “All it takes, he spoke, “is three Wicks.” “Three Wicks, three!” Even before the words were  uttered, she had cried out: “Seven Wicks power this ship, fully  exhausting their resources. We can survive on four, true, but we  gradually lose predictive capabilities going blind for any happening  after twenty years. Are you willing to compromise to that extent? Surely not! “Oh, but I am, do we have a choice? Debris from Earth will cripple us, for sure. The very reason why we are here, no? You propose a  controlled demolition, II propose three Wicks. Your plan is not  foolproof, we can still be hit. But for sure we end up with nothing. My  plan is not foolproof neither but if it works, we have gained a planet  fully under our control, our very own to come and go as we please. I  know, I know three Wicks is a lot, but that is what it will take.".*

*The room went humming an undecided tune. Two clear options, always best.  Most intelligences were hybrids, optimizing decisions on the fly,  calculating on similar datasets and between a clear nothing and a  potential something they voted sending three Wicks to Earth.*

***Two Wicks down, one to go.\***

*The house was quite ordinary. As she walked up the dirt road, her mind on  the reddish bush (why red?) all around, she felt a presence behind her.  Without looking back she called out “Hi Dan, on time for a change?”. And smiled. “Now we do not have much time. We don’t want you reading or  checking your devices and Facebook or Instagram. We want, we need you  out in the streets, in the woods.” The first time she heard him speak  was in a conference at Berckham College. She and Dan were captivated  somehow which was strange as she never let herself get carried away by  anyone who called himself a futurist. After his talk she sensed he was  serious, meaning every word he said. And now she was here, again. Dan,  her and three others from College.*

*"But first let me tell you what a Wick is. A Wick is a purposeful intelligent script  distributed over forty to fifty individuals spanning up to fifteen  generations. A Wick works through dreams, with hints and chance  encounters, coincidences, “Hey, don’t I know you from the painter  party?” Wicks always accomplish their mission, nesting as they do in  brains and auras of the shortest cut to their purpose, using them to the full and dismissing them quickly. “Man, did you see that! she launched  herself of the platform as if she was going to stop that train.” In a  high pitch voice, like he actually had seen this. The room had soul. As  this went through her head she wondered where it came from. A room  having soul, not an ordinary way of saying it felt good to be there. The light was low though and she asked if it could be brought up. Bring up  the light? Oh well, of course. But she noticed the group was looking at  her. What had prompted her to say that? She straightened her back and  looked him in the eyes as he softly said: “To turn Earth into a  spaceship, such was the mission of the three Wicks. Building a dashboard and a bridge, a dashboard and a bridge.”**

*Dan?*

*Dan stood up. “That first Wick is well documented by now”, authority in his voice. “We know its main aim was to bring about the very idea of  ‘data’, the practice of breaking down living material into bits and  pieces that could be compared and put into a hierarchy. On Lesbos  Aristotle started by dividing living things into two groups: plants and  animals.”*

*“Laplace, Leibniz, Diderot,  D’Alembert, William Bertram Turrill.” The old man, almost singing,  chanting as if it made more sense to list them this way."*

*"John Ray paving the way for Carl Linnaeus to revolutionize taxonomy”, Dan  calmly went on, “as Ramon Llull build logical machines that lead to the  Z3 by Konead Zuse, the first automatic computing machine.” “Then Turing, then Intel 4004,” softer now. “After that the Busicom Project conceived of a single-chip CPU design, then developed as a single-chip  microprocessor. The rest is history. We know how Masatoshi Shima  conceived of the first design in a dream and a drawing that Zsofi Torist dropped on the floor as she bumped into him on her way to the canteen.” “Wick One worked like a charm, the old man chuckled (did he actually  chuckle?), it has returned to the Mothership by now."*

*Dan?*

*“Now the second Wick was more tricky to spot. It did not work with  individuals that build ‘successfully’ on top of other findings (as is  precisely the fiction that the first Wick wove into the randomness of  life), it nested itself into groups or teams of people. It distributed  itself — as a distributed self — into creating shared spaces of feeling  ‘good’, feeling ‘normal’, feeling as if it was the right way to feel. It built rapport, a shared understanding. And it was very good at it. We  now know that the second Wick build the very notion of the ‘normal’, of  the ‘real’.”*

*“From early dawn of man-kind we run in packs and survive in teams of about 30–50”, almost humming to himself now the Professor took over. “In any tribe you would need some  people who would go out, look around and bring things and ideas back  home.” Looking up he stared at everyone one by one, for quite some time, saying: ” Like you…like you.”*

*He went  on: “These early innovators were balanced by other intelligences,  ideally balanced between the outer ends of manic boundary less and  extremely focused semi autistic and the in between skillsets that build  and maintained a notion of the ‚real’, ‚reality’ and ‚normality’ that  was able to sustain basic humans needs and functions. To each his place  in the tribe, ideally. If however such a situation arose everybody  (literally) felt well. The seer was listened to and the mason build as  he saw fit, thus timely shelter from the storm."*

*Timely, she thought, what a good word. Timely, timely. …tea! And having said  that out loud they all started laughing and broke up to make some.*

*But there was no stopping him now. Although they had heard similar stories  many times, he spoke very clearly this time: “From time to time the  specialists build such intricate elements or the innovators bring back  home such far-fetched ideas that the skillsets in the middle start to  adjust what is ‚normal’ and what is ‚strange’ and an evolutionary  process starts changing the Zeitgeist the ‚fashion’, the ‚customs’, in  short: the ‚real’. And sometimes this process would be a rupture, a real break; war and invading tribes bringing such new world views that a new normal was imposed and the old forgotten but in stories of grandmothers and the artifacts of old. Once in a while such a rupture became an  ontological change as in the ‚death’ of God for certain tribes. More  often the notion of the normal was kept until it was impossible to keep  at the cost of burning even more seers as witches, wizards, heretics,  Cathars, hippies, hackers, or any other minority group it could lay  their hands on. We are now witnessing such an ontological change, a  rupture in what we perceive as normal. The Internet, Augmented Reality,  The Internet of Things are all technological toolsets that have been far removed from the first tools that men used to chisel stone. The first  chivel to be used on stone was a stone. It only later became a chisel.  But it still did fit in someone’s hand. The feedback was intense and  obvious. It was Heidegger who saw that through mechanical engineering  and the Industrial Revolution it was no longer a hand applying force but a machine and hands overseeing that machine. This was the start of the  substantiation of the space with before that had been of visible  mediation and cause and effect. He realized that there was nothing we  could do, only wait as the famous last line in Sein und Zeit goes. He  also realized that it was a particular part of the tribe slowly taking  up the notion of ‚the normal’. It was the specialists who had been  crafting and dissecting and splitting things up into smaller and smaller building blocks that at first made no sense but slowly began to offer  the possibility of recreating their visions as a layer on top of what  the old notion of normal was not hurting it at all but slowly perfecting it, smoothing the edges of every perceivable human act. They offered  convenience. The specialist intelligence — an engineering toolset —  began eating itself as it found that it had no more real boundaries.  After automating work, leisure, administration, governing, it succumbed  briefly to the notion of the Living Lab but soon realized that the last  territory it had to conquer was the space in between driving to work and back home: everyday life and living. Like a grin trying out faces it  tried out all human forms of organization till it found the space in  between where love lives and hope and shame and fear.*

*Everyone was so silent. It all made so much sense.*

*Yes, friends, “that second Wick is a powerful son of bitch. Wick one is  bleeding straight into it. Which probably makes you wonder by now where  Wick 3 is. Well, it is right here. So far, we have identified about 33  people. Let me introduce you.”*

***Woods\***

*One evening Kito came. I felt the big wolf walking with me, very close to  my left side. He had always been there. He materialized out of my pain  and longing to make my pain real, make it count. Kito never left me  since, brought his pack along. This morning, on this early taxi ride to  the station, I asked for as many bonobo’s as possible. We need lightness and we want to be carefree on journeys to places we do not really need  to be. Just work. Trying so hard not to make bad things happen, to fence them off, only brings visions of what could happen. These visions find a way into you and as you only accept truth in you, you break into  persons that bring a higher meaning to the dilemma. They start the argue and as they argue they nest in your brain. Then you realize you brought the most absolute enemy into your own camp. There was no need for it.  It is just you, you trying to prevent life, to prevent things from  happening. But things happen. And you are not in charge. Realizing how  small I had made my life in order to minimize outside acts, always  trouble in the end, I realized that I had to let go of the mantras that  fought of negative possibilities. Death is drawn indeed by what you  safeguard [34 Lower your guard, do not change it. That is what I figured out on the empty platform, too early even for the coffee bars. Let’s  just say you can understand power by watching Gollem being devoured by  the power of the Ring. It is ego.I made one more step towards breaking  that, as I had to - again and again.*

*The  coffee was drinkable. A double espresso was not born this way, but he  let it slide. This was an Italian family running the small bar just off  Clerkenwell Rd and they made sure we all knew it. Six pounds to a coffee and an English breakfast, a short builder paid up happily. Adesso!  Subito!. Saucages and bacon. Bacon and eggs. Rolls. Brown sauce on one  side, ketchup on the other, please! So kindhearted and sweet, so polite  and all of them ordering meat. This could not be the best of meat.*

*Die Magier kamen, doch keiner verstand*

*Zu deuten die Flammenschrift an der Wand.*

*Belsazar ward aber in selbiger Nacht*

*Von seinen Knechten umgebracht*

*-Heinrich Heine*

*This is what he read:*

*The 1825 Decembrist uprising against feudal Russia was not planned well.  The officers had fought to free France alongside their French officers  only to return to see the soldiers they fought and died with to go back  into serfdom. It was more of a romantic then a strategic uprising. The  Czar found it hard to hang them, so he sent them to Siberia. And as they went, they formed artely, artels, just like any other convoy before  them had. In these artely the convicts organized themselves through all  kinds of self-organized ‘smart’ contracts. It was possible to change  name (and punishment), to buy and sell goods, comfort, and protection.  The artely leaders made deals with the wardens and officials. They were  in chains in the cities and villages. In the open fields, as they  marched, they took them off. It is well documented that prisoners who  escaped during such a deal, were flogged harsher and longer by their  fellow inmates then the officials. After all, they had broken not just  the social contract with the state but with their own ‘family’. This  betrayal is always worse. This tactical leadership – temporary smart  contracts – this coming together in ‘artely’ is what we have to do along every stretch on the journey from here to life as an integrated zone of operation. Against our grain at times, against our very own wishes,  simply chained together in the belief that breakdown of the current and  early integrators is far worse.*

*Let’s  build a new smart contract for the world. It will bring hope and hope is what drives real change and people smiling in the streets.*

*One more espresso, sir?*

*He nodded, unable to speak.*

 ***That is their edge\***

*As she gently closed the door Helena turned to look up, out of habit, to  see if her window was closed. It was actually open, but this was  Barcelona. It would be nice and cool when she got back from work. She  crossed the Carrer de Balmes and sat down quickly at a small table that  was free in bar Picasso. The waiter, the slow one again she thought, was surprisingly smooth in landing her cappuccino and croissant almost  simultaneously next to her phone ringing just then. For a brief instant  it seemed as if their hands would collide, but this was a waiter of  many, many years only bumping into people that deserved bumping into.  “Hi Jill’, “I am on my way, just grabbing my morning moment.” “No  worries, no hurry” Jill said. “Just wondering if you have already read  your mails? We have a request to look at some venues this afternoon at  2? Jill always kept her pitch high on the last words. It always sounded  like a question. “I know you are supposed to see David then, but this is more important. Can you cancel David? Then just keep looking smart and  try to catch that waiters’ eye!’ She was laughing as she signed off.  Helena plugged in her earphones. Five minutes, she thought. Sipping the  best cappuccino in the world, she figured she might as well listen to  the podcast of her favorite Professor. Not closing her eyes, she fixed  them on the magpie in the tree opposite the road. “That’s near my  window”, had she said that out loud? No, no one looked up. But a magpie, on his own, in the city this early? She pushed play. He began to talk.*

*Stories are like. Well, that is the point, isn’t it? Stories are not ‘like’,  not like anything else. Stories are. A story makes itself real as it  lures you in telling it. Who is talking? What is talking? Once in a  while we feel something powerful in a voice, an anomaly, a fluke hissing in the whoosh of the wind hitting hard as you step away from the  freight train whirling into the station. Such a clever ruse drawing in  any kind of social organization and dissent. The act of organizing  itself brings you tools that will help you. Then you end up using the  tools. In his poem Suicide note from a Cockroach in a low income Housing Project, Pedro Pietri[48] who after his discharge from the Army and  Vietnam had affiliated himself with the Young Lords, writes:*

*Ever since incinerators came*

*into the life of the minority groups*

*In the old buildings the people*

*Were very close to everything they had*

*Food was never thrown away*

*But today everything is going*

*Into those incinerators*

*The last family that lived here*

*Took the incinerator*

*To get to the first floor*

*They do not live here anymore*

*Damn those low income housing projects*

*Seriously speaking*

*I’m seriously seeking*

*The exit to leave this eerie existence*

*My resistance is low and will not grow[49]*

*The incinerator breaks the solidarity of sharing leftovers, of deciding  what to throw out, what to keep, who would be pleased with this or that. Instead everything becomes meaningless, devoid of personal investments  and investing in communal relationship between neighbours becomes  pointless. The very act of sharing something is lost, and people grow  more solitary.* 

*Who could have believed  this cause effect in an incinerator? You find it hard to believe still, I know that. That is their edge. Making you believe there was no plan to  break your parents and grandparents. Like there is no plan to break and  enslave you. Go check your phone. Try to refrain. By the way, Pedro  wrote this around the same time an FBI special agent in San Francisco  telexded Hoover that his investigation of the Black Panther Party  revealed the Panthers were primarily feeding breakfast to children.*

*Orange burst in bright as she suddenly opened her eyes. Had she been sleeping? She got up so fast she nearly toppled the table. Two words kept  floating through her mind, the Young Lords. She made a note to Brave  them later.*

*She slightly brushes the  buttocks of the waitress, in Montréal, in the restaurant where you have  steaks with that special sauce. Assumpto est in Coelus, a motto if there ever was one. God has taken Mary, body and soul, indeed, to Heaven: and the Angels rejoice! So sings not the Church, however, so sing we, the  tribe.*

*Yogjakarta: The first thing he  noticed was the sound, not humming no, it was not humming, more like  slowly waking up in a bathtub full of crickets. Without the water.  Getting of the Airport Express he kept saying to himself; three bags,  three bags, three bags. He never carried anything more than one bag,  hand luggage always. He had heard a story once. The police in Malaysia  had framed a young couple by putting heroin in their oversized bag after it had been cleared by customs. After that he had only packed hand  luggage, even if the trip was long. This time was different. He had  three bags. Three. Three bags. Man, it was hot. “Dan? Dan, is that you?” An elderly couple was getting of the bus. Their backpacks blocked his  vision. What was that sound? Three bags, three. “Dan?” He looked  straight into a joyous face of a young Indonesian guy, dreads dancing on the back of his black t-shirt, forkbomb printed on the front:* *:(){ :|:& };: “V. great to see you man!”*

*Ventspils: Her paternal grandfather walked all the way as a young man in uniform  from Omsk, seemingly unbreakable. In his eighties he was swinging that  big axe as if it was a twig. As she walked up to him carrying a tray of  cold tea in two traditional dark small glasses, he sang softly: “Some  things are learned from knowledge, some things are given in birth.  Sauna, my friend, my sweetheart, my sun. Sauna was born with Mother  Earth.” He smiled, bowed politely and took a sip of tea. “Ah, Rosemary,  you always had a way with herbs, like your mother, God rest her soul.”  He put his axe down and leaned on the wooden handle. He still stood as  straight as an arrow. She knew he was in pain. In his youth he had been  mesmerized by the disembodied voices on the radio, mechanical ghosts he  used to call them. He dreamed not of waves, he dreamed in waves. Somehow they caught up with him. He told her he had experimented with radar in  the military, but he never went into details. “You know, I think I could live here, at least in summer”, smiling, “I am really glad I came. Is  it tomorrow that we are going to see ‘Little Star’? Are your friends in  Riga yet?” No, payushka, they have not yet arrived. They will be in Riga tomorrow and will join us on Wednesday. The performance and the party  is on Friday. They want to show you their equipment. They are so excited to finally get a chance to see you. A legend, says Dan, in making music with silence.” “A legend eh, well I am still here,” as he picked up the axe. The RT-32 radio telescope Zveolsdoshka, aka "Little Star" aka  Ventspils International Radio Astronomy Centre was an ex-KGB radio  astronomy installation, fully functional again after repair of the  Latvian Academy of Sciences. Her friends at RIXC, new media sound  artists, had worked hard to get RT-32 on the international map. As Board members, fully trusted by the management, they had total control of all of RT-32’s capabilities for the Friday Seminar ‘The role of sound  artists in Space Research” and the party that was planned after dinner.*

***Sky\*** 

*She surfed a wave. No blockers, no bumps, no burns. She kept her head down. Found a tiny opening to a new tunnel of air. Swoosh! Calm coming over  her as she reached maximum speed. This is how it used to be all the time when she was younger. She learned riding the waves was like entering a  tunnel, riding layers of soft cushions. You hit them at the right angle, and ka-chung as you slide along for as long you want. Then you let go  and dream until everything below loses shape, becomes only color so  patterns form to navigate on. Ah, to float. Something had changed. No  one knew what. No one knew why. Tunnels that had been open for as long  as she could remember had now closed fully, or had been partially  blocked. Without warning invisible blockades hit you from all sides.  Tunnels were hotter than others with a different kind of heat. But this  wave was good. She was hoping for food on the other end. She was eating  only once a day for years now. Lately she had been picking up new  patterns and signals, all impulse to her. She was not yet aware this  happened whenever she was flying directly over the walking sticks, the  two-legged. Something was happening to them. They used to walk like pine trees, straight up. Recently they had all started to bend over, like  willows leaning over in the wind.* 

***Anvers\***

*When I was eight years old a newsreader announces on the radio the  government is away on recess. I ask my mother what that means? She says  they were going on holidays, just like us. I see the glass falling so  slow sunlight hitting crystal rainbow colors dance as it shatters on the kitchen floor. I just dropped that glass. I lost my faith in the real  at eight. It never returned. Sometimes I feel like I am still recovering from that moment. I was always listening to the radio news telling me  there was a government out there, leaders keeping us safe, people with a plan. Newsreaders working up energy to end in this high pitch nearly  out of breath voice indicating urgency, had me convinced; there were  people out there who knew what they were doing. So how could they go on  holiday? That was like reality taking a break. We played football in the park next door to our house, but my heart was not in it. A nervous  feeling that I had not known before crept it and nested itself somewhere in my body. Then, one morning, as I walked down the stairs I had the  familiar voice again. The ‘happenings’ were back. The government had  returned. And with it ‘problems’, ‘solutions’, factions’, and general  arguing on basically everything. Oh, I was pissed. “They are frauds, Ma! It’s all play! How is it nothing happens when they are not there? How  is that possible? It is the same world!” My mother looked at me and  smiled, opened the door from the fridge and poured out a glass of cold  lemonade. “Don’t drop this one, son. Welcome to reality.”*

***Telling it like it is. Woods\***



*Broken glass. That is what it was. Broken glass. No bees stinging or bats  tearing flesh. He had been running for hours. Eyes spotting shapes,  sensing contours crystal clear, ah, the smell so overwhelming. It ate  him. He would need at least two days to recover from this run. Once  trying to explain it to a friend he said: “Do you know how, before  take-off, the pilot gives full throttle but stays on the ground? Well,  that’s me when I shift. My sight hawkish clear. Ears resonate as if  sounds are coming from within. I am my senses, every cell singing,  giving thanks for being alive. As I hit twigs, bush and branches a  rhythm comes pumping, lifting me off the ground. No longer in my body it takes over and I disappear. The body flows on pure instinct, so fully  at home it seeks out blood and bones as if to reaffirm it was once born  of flesh and blood.* 

*What he had not said is that he was not, ever, alone. Others were running alongside him.*

*Was there ever a spotless kitchen so full of life? How long had it taken  her? A lifetime surely exploring every inch of wood, investing energy in every corner and cupboard. Investing space is what performance artists  called their journeys into everyday streets and squares, investigating  materials as if they were something new, innovative, when all one sees  is stone tiles, cobbles, a bench, lantern poles. High top curved windows lit up the kitchen at any moment of the day. The light, it fell on the  long wooden table. It fell on the walnut cupboard. It fell on the  beautifully scrubbed floor. It fell on her grey curls dancing around her neck, swirling, alive. To see her peel a potato was like watching  someone tuning a piano. It took forever. She followed every curve, and  backtracked cracked edges as if she was reverse engineering how it had  come to be this shape. This morning she was exceptionally talkative. She told him how three weeks ago sitting in an airport bar, “I was this  close”, she said, breaking that mug, slicing her wrists and throat to  die on the spot, right there, surrounded by hundreds of passengers  thinking this was a novel kind of terrorist attack. Sipping her doppio,  her gaze had taken in the mass of travelers, each and every one of them  clutching their phone like a lifeline. As she scanned the crowd:  nothing, not a thing, zero. She felt no familiar forms of life. They  could have all been ghosts. This emptiness ran deep. As she was younger  panic had struck in moments like these. She would be haunted by the idea that she would not be able to cope the next moment. She would scream,  shout, tear out her hair, hurt herself. And she had done all those  things. In time, she learned moments simply pass to become next moments  if she only stopped pushing pain away, allowing it to become a thin  gnawing gut feeling. Her flight was delayed. As she looked for it on the board, she saw a young boy eating what looked like huge homemade  sandwiches. She felt calm immediately. Mothers, fathers making  sandwiches still! She looked again to treat herself to something good,  something living. And again.*

*Time.  Stopped. The sun was dancing. In the mist, a word- a word? – a word  pushed itself into the clearing: orphan. Orphan. I am an orphan girl.*

*The size of a container, the toilet looked clean, but it still smelled like the washrooms in the campsites in France he had visited as a teenager.  Somehow it always put him at ease. It signaled a kind of continuity,  even if it was of the kind that involved piss. He washed his hands.  Hesitated. Then he carefully checked behind the mirror. It had to be  there. His heart started racing out of the blue. Why here? Why now? I am overreacting. Calm down! Breath. Breathe in. Breathe out. Think. This  is Bar Paniek. He could not help smiling. Panicking in Bar Panic, so  apt. It had to be here. Look again. He checked again and this time he  found it. It was taped not on the wall but on the back of the mirror. He wet his hands and ran his fingers over the smooth surface. Jesus! There was noise coming from outside, was that someone yelling? No time to  think. He wrapped the small surprisingly clean blue towel and wrapped it around his hand. Looking up into greyish eyes in a hard-edged face, how come he had lost so much weight? – shattering into tiny little pieces  as he hit the glass hard, scanned the floor, found the taped object  covered in splinters, pocketing it with his left hand as he quickly  unwrapped his right. Gently opening the door, he was preparing to run in case of trouble, but nobody seemed to have heard anything, so he calmly closed it, passed the wooden tables with the colorful plants in tiny  tin boxes and walked up towards the water.*

*On April 9, IoT Day, 2023 the world came to a standstill. With an average  of 102,465 flights per day about one million passengers died as their  planes went out of order and down. Tens of thousands got stuck in  elevators. Exoskeleton soldiers stopped dead in their tracks as they  went of the GPS map. Cars crashed by the thousands as the navigation  blinked out in their cars and on their phones. Car to car was still  intact but for higher level analytics and routing it still was dependent on satellites. At 15:03 GMT two simple lines of code were smuggled into the system clock update, scheduled once every twelve years, to account  for the minute time difference between Earth and the space satellites.  The two lines created an internal logical meltdown. All systems in every satellite started to shut down. Space, silent once again, portrayed a  soundproof ballet of debris as the machines stopped being machines. Ice  cubes in a glass of water, stirred by an unseen hand. The world got  still. At least for a little while.*

*It  felt over 40. The news gave it 33 degrees. It was already 8 in the  evening. Helena, sweating yet dressed in nothing but a t-shirt sat  squatted on a chair, her desk facing the wall neatly lining up four  small drawings of animals; a locust, a whale, an eagle and a wolf. The  air-conditioning was running on minimum. The house owners kept saying it was not broke. They would not fix it. This evening was bearable, only  just.* 

*She ran a VPN and typed in [ixquick.com](http://ixquick.com/) ‘Young Lords’. No need to go Tor on this one. About an hour or so later she had to get up as her left leg was asleep. She had not noticed an  hour had passed. Why was this not splashed across the front pages of all the papers? Why was this story not told, forgotten, buried like so many stories of simple dignified actions of ordinary people? The Young Lords or Palante as they also called themselves were Puerto Ricans in Chicago and New York organizing on everyday issues and the poverty and  unemployment in their communities. They served breakfast to the  children, cleaned their streets and being refused material, took the  brooms anyway. Ran a free dental clinic, hijacked an X-RAY truck at some point and drove that through the barrio, went door-to-door with TB  testing. In July 1970 the Young Lords took over Lincoln Hospital in the  South Bronx with the help of nurses and doctors for 24 hours and called a press Conference to shout out the deplorable conditions. The City had  simply diverted the funds allotted to the Hospital to other projects. [****[90]\****The Young Lords ‘liberated’ Churches to serve breakfast as they liberated  Lincoln Hospital. Six years later a new hospital was build.* 

*Actions have consequences, she kept repeating that in her mind as if a mantra  had taken over. She felt anxiety nesting deeper and deeper in her  stomach. So powerful it boomed: Actions have consequences, she feared it would never go away. But of course it did. She had been pacing up and  down. Had she been dancing? She remembered feeling like this. Walking  over to the bookcase she picked a small booklet, Civil Disobedience  revisited by Anonymous:* 

*“I hear of a  convention to be held at Baltimore, or elsewhere, for the selection of a candidate for the Presidency, made up chiefly of editors, and men who  are politicians by profession; but I think, what is it to any  independent, intelligent, and respectable man what decision they may  come to?*

*....I have never declined paying the highway tax, because I am as desirous of being a good neighbor as I am of being a bad subject; and as for supporting schools, I am doing my part to educate my fellow-countrymen now. It is for no particular item  in the tax-bill that I refuse to pay it. I simply wish to refuse  allegiance to the State, to withdraw and stand aloof from it  effectually.”.How does it become a man to behave toward this American  government today? I answer, that he cannot without disgrace be  associated with it. I cannot for an instant recognize that political  organization as my government which is the slave's government also.” –  Thoreau, Civil Disobedience, 1842)*

*An  Obsessive Compulsiveness has crept into the five major regimes of  decision making. The Shanghai honesty app draws from over three hundred  databases to ascertain the honesty of a citizen. China’s leadership  model is engineers. The country is run like a platform, but instead of  owning the framework and open up the data, control by design is wrought  into every layer. A USA President fires at every tweet he does not like, micromanaging down to the level of picking individual fights. In  moments of leadership crisis core qualities flare up and supporting  qualities disappear: the ultimate businessman as politician. In Europe,  the priests are fully turning sage. Their ultimate rule by legality, the GDPR, attempts to divert a Tsunami of connectivity by standing in front of it and shouting that it is not right for it to exist. The priests  are bureaucrats in cheap robes, measuring momentum by its adherence to  rules tuned to long gone times. The person driven model, Russia, Turkey, al lot of South America, still requires muscle flexing and strong  rhetoric. One has to be seen to act, hence the statist solutions;  invading a country, jailing thousands of people. Then there are those  who are still King and rule through their God or Gods. How to reconcile  this with deep learning, smart cities and AI?*

*The businessman, the warrior, the priest, the engineer, the king - they  have lost legitimacy. Knowing this, they all engage on unproductive  paths that simple thinking common sense individuals can no longer  follow.*

*We must no longer follow any of these failed leaders and leadership models.* 

*There are no more organic elites working in any of the leadership models. If  there were we could not have Climate Change, how could a person with a  heart embark on such a path of plastics and greed? How could such  persons be involved in bankrupting societies and escaping into gated  communities?* 

*All around me in my fifty  years on the planet I have engaged with only a handful of people that I  would trust my home with, let alone a street, city, a region, a world.*

*The elites of today are not worthy of that name, these parvenues are  robbing the last remains of public wealth front of our very eyes. We let it happen. I too, I let it happen. There is no other way but to keep  things small. I have no stomach for revolutions. Frankly I also do not  even want to be in the same building as these people. Still I feel the  urge to write this down. Why can’t I just shut up and go for a coffee  and some sun?*

*Now Thoreau says:*

*“I am not responsible for the successful working of the machinery of  society. I am not the son of the engineer. I perceive that, when an  acorn and a chestnut fall side by side, the one does not remain inert to make way for the other, but both obey their own laws, and spring and  grow and flourish as best they can, till one, perchance, overshadows and destroys the other. If a plant cannot live according to its nature, it  dies; and so a man.”*

*Rosemary should read this, Helena thought. She found the link to the Young Lords, Thoreau’s  original and the anonymous Revisited text in pdf and Telegrammed her  that she should read this today.*

*RT-32  came alive five minutes to 20:00 April 9 2023. It shot a forkbomb as it  piggybacked on the European welcoming signal that was broadcasting the  latest Galileo protocol. At 20:04 satellite communication broke down. By 20:18 all European nodes closed down, imploding their operating  systems. Americans, Russian, and Chinese frantically scrambled back up  systems to stop synching their GPS signals with the infested Galileo  signal. To no avail, it was impossible to hardcode an abort at that deep level in such a short timeframe. By 20:24 any effective communication  with any satellite had become impossible. Systems started to crash  receiving too many contradictory time codes. Lights failed. An eerie  silence creeped up as the world got still.*

***Sky\***

*She surfed a wave. No blockers, no bumps, no burns. She kept her head down. Found a tiny opening to a new tunnel of air. Swoosh! Calm coming over  her as she reached maximum speed. This is how it used to be all the time when she was younger. She learned that riding the waves was like  entering a tunnel: riding layers of soft cushions. You hit them at the  right angle, and ka-chung as you slide along for as long you want. Then  you let go and dream until everything below loses shape and becomes only colour so patterns form to navigate on. Ah, to float. Something had  changed. No one knew what. No one knew why.*

*Wick three gathered in Yogyakarta.*

*We all took detours, but then we are used to taking detours. We live in  the between. We can therefore not be seen, until we are forced to  actualize, but only because there is no more in between to hide in.*

*Then we dance.*

***A ship. Dream baby dream, forever.\***

*So we danced. The next morning we wondered how it all had changed, but it  had not. Nothing had. Big fucks small as Alfie says to Tommy. In every  headlight. We are in this dream, forever. And after all, the only  logical explanation for the scope and speed of the digital, the way we  are all putting on this coat, and how it fits us, one size fits all! As a little ball in space, earth is a tiny ship sailing a set course. It  lacks a bridge. it lacks a Captain. It needs a bridge so other ships can dock. As the container started to shape the cargo, protocol shaped data as the cornerstone for value - we burned all our fathers flags - and  life itself becomes a series of activities, a set of skills. a plethora  of services. Who needs the nation of heat? Who wants the mess, the  excess of longing and will, the manic dream? Lust? The ship needs ease.  It is in no need of internal conflict setting its course for the  universe. It needs all its antennas pointed outwards. No one is looking  for a heart of gold in this iteration. Not even for a heart. Mind that  beat, you know it is tracked nowadays. Of course it is.*

*And you know what?*

*I get it.* 

*I get it because, well because it makes sense.